>>REGINA MEREDITH:
So Patrick, we're
at a conference on immortality
here in our beloved home,
Sedona, Arizona.
And there are a lot
of different camps
when it comes to immortality.
You have the notion of the
extreme technological end
of transhumanism to
organic life extension
to the spiritual overlay,
which is what's the deal,
we're all immortal anyway.
And so before we get into
the really large issues,
let's talk about
your piece in it.
Because one of the
things is the human body
has the potential to extend its
life very naturally and easily
by just adding back
some elements that
have been stripped away
from us to begin with.
And you're, like, the
top guy in the world when
it comes to negatively
ionized hydrogen, for one.
So let's start that part of
the story, how you discovered
the notion that we were somehow
missing this in our diets.
And then we'll go
into the sulfur story.
>>PATRICK FLANAGAN: Sure.
I've always been
intensely interested
in health, and healing,
and in longevity.
I didn't want to live a long
time unless I was healthy.
I mean, who would, I think?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>FLANAGAN: But I was
severely poisoned as a child
with mercury when
I was two years old
and became autistic until
I was five and a half.
Never spoke a word until
And then I got polio
because of what
the mercury did to
me in polio vaccine.
And they said I'd
never walk again.
And then I was a
premature baby and spent
over two months in an
incubator without human contact
when I was born.
And so I didn't get any
human contact until after.
I mean any meaningful contact.
>>REGINA: You missed all those
chemicals, let's just say,
in your development.
All the things that are produced
when we have human contact.
Then you're poisoned by mercury.
Then you end up with polio.
So you're a very sickly child.
>>FLANAGAN: Yes, and then all
my early years as a child,
I was sick all the
time, sick a lot.
And so I became
really interested
in natural health
practices and started yoga.
It was "Yoga for Americans,"
which I read when I was 11.
And I started doing hatha yoga.
And it made me feel really good.
>>REGINA: With the
polio, was that something
that helped you regain
your motor skills?
>>FLANAGAN: It did, because
I got polio when I was nine
and they said I'd
never walk again.
I was in leg braces
and crutches.
And I forced myself to
walk through great pain.
And somehow-- I have
a real strong mind.
>>REGINA: Yes, you do.
>>FLANAGAN: So I
became very interested
in health and in natural
health practices.
And so I started drinking
juices, fresh raw juices
when I was 17.
I became a vegan vegetarian
for 30 years, almost 30 years
starting at 17.
And was really into learning
all about how to heal the body,
because I got good results from
some of these natural practices
and diets.
And one of the things I
noticed was the tremendous lift
I got from fresh, raw juices.
It made me feel really good.
I could fast on
juices for months.
And they felt so good.
But if the juice wasn't fresh,
if it was half an hour old,
it didn't do the
same thing for me.
>>REGINA: I noticed that.
I mean, I actually
will get a stomach ache
if I drink a juice that
is not within minutes
having been pressed.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
Right away, you got
to slug it all down.
>>REGINA: But you say it doesn't
have to do with the enzymes.
Most people would think that
it has to do the enzymes.
You're saying no.
>>FLANAGAN: No,
because when people
said it was the enzymes, well
I just bought a lot of enzymes.
And I took all the enzymes
and they didn't do anything.
And so I discovered
about 1983-- I
discovered 1983 to
'84 a special molecule
in fresh organic
vegetable and fruit juice
that is called the hydride
ion, negative ionized hydrogen.
That's a hydrogen atom
with an extra electron that
happens to be at the
exact same potential
as the electrons
in the human body.
And the human body operates on
a potential of about one volt,
and those electrons have a
potential of almost one volt.
And they're the source of
all biological electrons.
So I discovered how to isolate
those and consume them and put
them in pills so other
people could take them.
And it changed my
life completely.
And I've never been
healthier since.
And I'm going to
be 70 this year.
And I'm working on everything
I can to keep healthy,
at least feeling
young as I grow older.
>>REGINA: I know, but
I've seen something,
because I've known you
for a lot of years.
Your hair was much grayer
about 10 years ago.
Something's happened.
So you're reversing the
aging process in your body.
>>FLANAGAN: Absolutely.
And a lot of it's
negative ionized hydrogen.
I have a Chinese
partner that sells it.
And the reason he's selling it--
and he came to me because he
gave it to his
94-year-old mother, who
had pure white long
hair down to her waist.
And after a couple
months on the product,
her hair was coming
up black at the roots.
Her pure white hair
had turned black.
And he said OK, that's for me.
>>REGINA: Well
let's talk about it.
Let's talk about
negatively ionized hydrogen
in its purest form,
cosmically, the sun,
how it interacts,
why you're getting
that in your fresh
juices and vegetables,
and then also the degradation
of that same source of fruits
and vegetables for
another reason.
So tell us that
part of the story.
>>FLANAGAN: Well it
turns out that we
talk a lot about the
carbon cycle, right?
Well, there is in the
universe a hydrogen cycle,
because the sun and stars
are made mostly of hydrogen.
In fact, 90% of the universe
is hydrogen, 9% is helium,
and the other 1% are
all the other elements
that we all know about.
And it turns out
that Chandrasekhar--
a physicist from
India, astrophysicist--
got the Nobel Prize for
discovering that starlight
is produced when hydrogen
on the surface of a star
takes on electrons and makes
negative ionized hydrogen
called the hydride ion.
And that chemical
process emits light.
>>REGINA: So then this has
to get into photosynthesis.
>>FLANAGAN: Well yeah.
And what happens
is that light hits
the leaves of plants, the
green leaves of plants.
And what happens is that
the plants break down water
into negative ionized
hydrogen and oxygen.
Not just hydrogen and
oxygen, but a lot of it's
negatively ionized.
And if you eat fresh raw
plants, as our ancestors did--
you know, the real cave diet
kind of thing-- if you eat
fresh raw food, you're
getting a huge amount
of negative ionized hydrogen
ions in your body and blood
stream.
And that's what happens when
you juice fresh raw juices.
This hydrogen is released, which
is the world's most powerful
antioxidant.
And it just quickens
the body and gives you
all kinds of energy, but
only for half an hour.
After half an
hour, that hydrogen
is evaporated and gone.
And if you keep the juice in
a refrigerator or whatever,
half an hour later
it's still got enzymes
but the hydrogen's gone,
which is the real booster
energy from fresh, raw food.
>>REGINA: Aside from energy,
I mean, what is it actually
doing on a cellular level
and also to the DNA?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, it turns out
that the biochemical reactions
in biochemistry in college
and various schools, they
talk about the Krebs
energy cycle, which
is an energy cycle in the body.
Citric acid cycle, in which we
make adenosine triphosphate,
ATP, which is the main
energy molecule in the body.
And they show various chemicals
with protons coming in.
There's hydrogen without
any electrons coming in.
And then it shows the electrons
coming into the reaction,
and minerals being-- elements
being replaced, like phosphates
and so forth.
But they never tell
you where the electrons
come from in human body.
They just, like, oh, they
just come from somewhere.
And I discovered that the
electron carrier, of course,
in the human body, which is
well known in biochemistry,
and one electron
carrier is NADH,
nicotine adenine dinucleotide
hydride, which is--
>>REGINA: Easy for you to say.
>>FLANAGAN: Is a coenzyme in
the body that carries hydrogen
into the cells with a negative
electron, H-minus ions.
And those H-minus ions
then depose phosphate bond
from ADP-- I mean oxygen from
ADP, forming a third phosphate
bond called ATP, which
gives us all our energy.
And so I've discovered that
the electron that does that
is H-minus ions.
So I discovered a way of
making lots of H-minus ions
and taking them inside the body.
>>REGINA: Of course you did.
How did you isolate that?
I mean, do you
have-- I mean, this
isn't meant to be an
infomercial by any means,
but has anybody else come
up with the same technology
for isolating it now?
I mean this was quite a long
time ago, so a lot of people
are doing it now.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, yeah.
Well we've published
a dozen papers or so
in scientific journals,
and other scientists
are doing that.
There's a Russian scientist
now that says he invented it.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Well you've got the paper trail.
I've seen the papers
from a long time ago.
So when you're talking about
picking up that extra electron,
now we're talking about kind
of the bioelectrical body.
And I know you understand
electricity and energy
on a very unique level.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah,
and DNA repair.
>>REGINA: OK, let's talk
about how this figures in.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, our bodies
are assaulted all the time
by free radicals.
Not human free
radicals, necessarily,
but chemical free radicals.
And the free radicals
steal electrons from DNA,
break the DNA strand.
And if it's not
repaired, then we
get various diseases and things.
And the body has DNA
repair capabilities,
but the hydrogen ladder of DNA
is made up of hydrogen atoms.
And so in order
to repair DNA, you
need H-minus ions,
negative ionized hydrogen.
And you can repair
a lot of damage.
>>REGINA: I find it fascinating.
Because I notice,
even myself, if I
should become depleted
on some level, what
I call it is-- I
mean for me, it's
a feeling of I'm not running
electricity through the body
properly.
My electrical system is down.
That's the first thing I notice.
And that is exactly
what's going on?
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And so we need to
have that electrical cycle,
that flow of electricity to
be able to repair damaged
cells, DNA for
energy production.
So this missing electron
that MegaH-- or the product's
MegaH-- but the negatively
ionized hydrogen brings in
is kind of that
little holy grail?
>>FLANAGAN: Right.
>>REGINA: And you can get it
in, like you say, fresh foods.
>>FLANAGAN: Oh yeah,
fresh foods and juices,
and you've got plenty of it.
And then the other thing is that
all the antioxidants in nature,
whether it's the colors in
fresh vegetables and fruits
or it's vitamin C,
all of them actually
have negative ionized hydrogen
as the active ingredient
in the anti-oxidant.
Like vitamin C is
ascorbic acid, but when
it's neutralized
to free radical,
it becomes dehydroascorbic
acid, meaning
it lost a hydrogen,
which happened
to be negative ionized hydrogen.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>FLANAGAN: And so this
discovery is what helped a lot.
The body is very electrical.
You know, there's a whole thing
called the electric universe
where they're talking
about plasma interactions
between the planets and
the comets and things.
And in the human
body, we have what's
called the bioelectric body.
Because a lot of the circuits
in the body are electronic,
electrical in nature.
A lot of things are
being discovered in DNA,
like it's a laser.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And it's interesting,
because if you
look at it on an atomic level,
just the table of elements,
for example, take one of
them that has maybe a fewer
number of electrons, it
looks just like the cosmos.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean,
as above, so below.
And so if we're missing certain
of those elements, of course
our body shouldn't
be able to function.
And certainly not in concert
with the whole, right.
>>FLANAGAN: Right.
>>REGINA: We go out of
relationship with the whole.
>>FLANAGAN: Right, the
music of the sphere.
The little atoms in our
bodies are making music
and the planets are
making music and they
should be in concert
with each other.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
and so let's
talk about the water
factor in that.
Because that's one of the fluid
bonding factors or mediums.
>>FLANAGAN: Well most people
notice that when you get older,
you get a lot of wrinkles.
And they get more and more
as you get older, usually.
And we do creams and
all kinds of things.
People do anyway.
I don't.
But I'm lucky, because
what's happened
is that early on in
my life, I learned
that water is the most
important nutrient in our bodies
and that not all water is equal.
It's not just H2O, and
because it has structure.
And so basically, when
we're born, we're 90% water.
And as adults, our brains
should be about 90% water.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that
plump little baby skin.
Everything's nice
and plump and fluid.
And then we just watch it
dehydrate as the years go on.
>>FLANAGAN: And flexible.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>FLANAGAN: And so
water, I was taught
when I was 17 years old-- I
was a child prodigy working
at the Pentagon-- and
Doctor Henri Coanda,
fluid dynamic
scientist, taught me
that water is the most
important nutrient in our bodies
and really made me aware that
my study should be water.
And so I followed his advice and
have studied water all my life,
for over 50 years now,
and made a lot of--
>>REGINA: I have
questions about it,
then, because right now you have
all different camps on water
raging.
Yes, you can get
the Hunza water.
Yes, you can go to Vilcabamba
and drink the water.
But we can't all do that.
And so you have
these various ways
you can put MegaH in water,
which creates some of that
if you're doing it in
that crystallized form.
But the arguments
are really more right
now between alkalized water,
ionized water, distilled water.
Tell me what you
think about all this,
because you've invested your
scientific mind into it for so
long.
>>FLANAGAN: Well the
process of metabolism
is acidic for the most part.
So we make a lot of acid,
poisonous byproducts.
Carbon dioxide is acidic
when it's in water.
That's what carbonic acid
is, or soda water is.
It's acid because of
the carbon dioxide.
And our cells exhale
carbon dioxide.
And a lot of the foods
that we eat are acid.
And so we have to alkalinize.
But not all
alkalizers are equal.
Like sodium bicarbonate is
the best alkalizer there is.
>>REGINA: Just to put a little
baking soda in water, right.
Just a tiny bit, a little pinch.
>>FLANAGAN: Because if water
is too acid, it alkalizes it.
And if it's too alkaline,
sodium bicarbonate
brings it to the right
range that the body wants.
Because if you're too
alkaline, it's really just
as bad as being over acid.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we have
a very small tolerance
range in the human
body for that.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Would you say,
if you have an alkalizer
and you're using
an alkalizer, say
you wanted to spend
the extra few thousand
instead of get $1.29
box of the baking soda.
What is the best range to set
it in if it's reading true?
>>FLANAGAN: Well you want
it to be about pH of 9.5
if it's one of those
electronic alkalizers,
because that's not caustic.
If you were to put sodium
hydroxide in water,
it would go up there-- 9.5, 10.
But it's caustic, and
you can't use that.
It'll hurt you.
>>REGINA: OK, so 9.5 if you've
got a, we won't name names,
but if you have a
quality machine that
passes all the specs
scientifically.
Or you can use a
little baking soda.
But what about distilled water?
There's kind of rage about
distilled water, too.
>>FLANAGAN: Well first of
all, minerals in hard water
we can't really use.
Our bodies can't,
they're inorganic.
And the body can
organify some minerals.
It tries to make them organic.
It uses up a lot of materials
and a lot of energy.
And basically,
what you want to do
is get organic
minerals from food.
And a cup of tea
or a cup of coffee
has more usable minerals than
five gallons of well water.
And so--
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>FLANAGAN: Yes,
because they're organic.
And in my own body, I have
only used distilled water
since I was 17, which
was over 53 years ago.
>>REGINA: Do you have your
own distillation unit, then?
You just distill your
water or you buy it?
>>FLANAGAN: I used to
have my own distiller.
But now I can say that
they have good ghee.
The reverse osmosis
devices that make
water as good as
distilled water.
And so I have a special
reverse osmosis now.
And when I put a little
tester in it says zero PPM.
It's really pure.
But then I add food and things
to my water, and juices,
and I get all my
minerals that way.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's go into
the other part of that story.
Because part of
this conference, we
were listening to a
talk on the notion
of the toxicity of radiation.
We've talked about
this on camera before.
So getting into the
food portion of it
and the sulfur
portion of the story,
to start dumping
toxins from cells,
and then rebuilding
with the MegaH.
So you're giving a
little prescription
at this stage for us.
>>FLANAGAN: Right, right.
As you know, first
we had Chernobyl
and that was bad enough.
But now Fukushima's gone
off and Japanese government
isn't really admitting
how bad it is.
For some, well, whatever
reason is theirs.
>>REGINA: Political.
>>FLANAGAN: Political reason.
And so we now know that the
entire west coast of the United
States all the way to the tip
of South America from Alaska
all down has a lot of
radioactive byproducts
in the water, on
the land, in food.
And we need to figure
out what kind of diets
and how we can detoxify from it.
Because it is spreading
all over the world.
And eventually it'll be in
north and south of the equator.
And so we're doing our best to
figure out what to do about it,
but there are some
things we can do.
We can take what's called
organic sulfur, which is also
called MSM, which is
methylsulfonylmethane.
>>REGINA: But you have to
be careful the source of it.
Not all the little
capsules you see
in the-- we talked with
Patrick McGean recently,
and so he explained a
fair amount about that.
So for anybody watching,
you can certainly
go to the Patrick
McGean interview
for details on organic sulfur.
But talk about why
it's important.
Yeah.
>>FLANAGAN: Sulfur
happens to form compounds
with I think it's 142 or
144 compounds with all
the elements on the atomic
table except for iodine.
And there's a good
reason for that.
Because when you take
a sulfur compound
into your body like MSM, it
can form plutonium sulfate,
platinum sulfate,
and cesium sulfate.
A lot of radionuclides that
are harmful to the body
are being spewed
out by Fukushima,
and we're breathing
it into our lungs
and we're eating it on our food.
And the way you get rid of
those radioactive elements,
one way, really good way, is to
take at least three teaspoons
of MSM every day.
And what it does is it forms
compounds with the heavy metals
and then eliminates them--
>>REGINA: Kind of chelates
them out of the body.
>>FLANAGAN: Because
sulfates can't
stay in the body more
than about 12 hours.
>>REGINA: OK, so if we're
finding a good source--
and we can refer to
McGean-- of organic sulfur,
and we're chelating this
stuff out of the body,
you were saying earlier that
the negatively ionized hydrogen
or Mega Hydrate,
even the product,
or whether you're
doing the product
or your juices, also it has a
very short life in the body.
>>FLANAGAN: Right, it does.
So you have to do it every day.
>>REGINA: And you have
to do it-- is once a day?
I mean, what would you
prescribe to people?
We got the three teaspoons
of organic sulfur.
>>FLANAGAN: If you wanted to
do it more than that, if you
wanted to have it in
your body 24 hours a day,
you've got to take a good dose,
and then 12 hours later take
another dose.
Or you can take smaller doses
twice during the 12 hour period
and twice during the next one.
I sometimes take it
before I go to bed and--
>>REGINA: And when you wake up.
>>FLANAGAN: And when I get up
in the morning or mid morning.
But it works very well.
And then there's other
things that you can do.
The reason it won't
sulfate iodine
is that the iodine sulfate
would pull thyroid iodine out
of your body, which we need
desperately for our thyroid.
>>REGINA: Which will kill us.
>>FLANAGAN: Right
which would kill us.
But then there's radioactive
iodine going around.
And so I take iodine supplement.
I get about 50
milligrams of iodine
from the equivalent
of what's called
Lugol's solution every
day to protect my thyroid,
because I want to live.
It doesn't matter if I have
a short life or a long life,
but I'd like to be healthy.
If it's longer, I
want to be healthy.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
We have about five
minutes left, so I
thought we'd get
into the larger--
since we only have that
much time left-- the larger
philosophical
discussion about it.
Because as I said
in the beginning,
we're at an
immortality conference.
So you have organic
ways of extending
life, which is what we've
just been talking about.
Then you have extremely
technological means
of prolonging life going
into something that's
being called
transhumanist movement.
And then you have a soul
that has its own-- maybe you
can say-- comes in with
an expiration date.
So let's talk about that for a
moment and how you perceive it.
Because you've perceived
your lineage in past
lives and so forth.
>>FLANAGAN: Right, yeah.
if you're into past
lives and you've
been regressed and
experienced that possibility,
then you'd say, well the body
in some very esoteric books
and some-- a lot
of ancient books
talk about that the body's
like wearing a suit of clothes.
And then it gets old,
and it gets dumped,
and then you pick
up another one.
And so we're all
immortal, that we're
all immortal beings experiencing
what it's like to be in a body.
And then the other side is
transhumanism and the idea
that you can pull
all the memories out
of a person's brain
and personality traits
and everything and
put it in a computer,
put that into a robot,
and you'll live happily
ever after in a robot's body.
>>REGINA: How does that fit with
the notion of having a spirit
or soul that's
infusing everything?
>>FLANAGAN: And not only
that, but you might find out
living in a robot body isn't
nearly as pleasurable as living
in a body that can have sex.
>>REGINA: And have
strawberry shortcake.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
Well that, too.
We all have different pleasures
at different ages in our life.
When you're a child,
there's nothing
more pleasurable
than mother's milk.
And when you get a little
older, it's ice cream.
And get a little older and
you get to reproduction.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And it goes on and on.
So there are pleasures
being in the body.
I mean, if you're looking
at that, we are on our way
to extended life from
what we're hearing
from every source,
every quarter, even ETs.
We're on our way
to extended life.
Is this because of the
reintroduction or discovery
of things like negatively
ionized hydrogen, MSM?
Is it because of
that, or is there
something happening, maybe
an impulse cosmically
that might even be extending us?
>>FLANAGAN: All of the above.
But you know, I
think personally I
would rather-- if I happened
to aspire-- because I've
died several times
and left my body
and come back-- that I am
a soul living in this body.
And I would hate to think
that if just all my memories
and personalities were put in a
computer that my soul, that me,
the real me, which is who I
am, not those personalities.
Because our personalities--
>>REGINA: Those are temporal.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, that that
could be transferred to a robot
and it'd be a pretty
interesting robot, maybe,
but my soul would
be being reborn
somewhere else in a body.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
No, I'm with you on that.
I find the transhumanist
movement rather disturbing,
and it has to be
fear driven by people
who believe there is
nothing beyond physicality.
So it's just a way
to kind of extend
that little window of time
experience for a little bit
longer.
>>FLANAGAN: Well I want to know,
if they get us into a robot,
and the robot has
the personality
and has lots of fun, does
the robot dream at night
and leave his body,
the robot body
and walk around the universe
and then come back to its body
again.
>>REGINA: Well it's
going to be interesting.
If you saw the movie
"Her"-- did you see "Her?"
That was a very
interesting concept.
Because just spinning
intelligence into motion itself
is self replicating and aspiring
to more in and of itself
in that film the way
it goes, which I think
there's-- that's an
interesting level of truth.
But it doesn't have to do
with that thing called soul.
>>FLANAGAN: I don't know.
>>REGINA: Well maybe it does.
Maybe it will create that.
You never know.
>>FLANAGAN: Maybe
that's the new creation.
>>REGINA: We're going to leave
that as a big question mark.
And Patrick, thank
you so much for taking
a little bit of time.
I think your message
is extremely important,
so I wanted to nab
you while we could.
>>FLANAGAN: Thank you, Regina.
It's my pleasure.
[THEME MUSIC]